Inheritance is also known as Is-A-Relationship

It is implemented by using extends keyword.


Main Advantage of Using Inheritance
1. Reusability  - facility to use public methods of base class without rewriting the same.
2. Extensibility - extending the base class logic as per business logic of the derived class
3. Data hiding -- base class can decide to keep some data private so that it cannot 
be altered by the derived class
4. Overriding--With inheritance, we will be able to override the methods of the base class 
so that meaningful implementation of the base class method can be designed in the derived class.


Disadvantage of Using Inheritance:
1.One of the main disadvantages of inheritance in Java (the same in other object-oriented 
languages) is the increased  time/effort it takes the program to jump through all the 
levels of overloaded classes. If a given class has ten levels of  abstraction above it, 
then it will essentially take ten jumps to run through a function defined in each of those 
classes 

2.Main disadvantage of using inheritance is that the two classes (base and inherited class) 
get tightly coupled. This means one cannot be used independent of each other.

3. Also with time, during maintenance adding new features both base as well as derived 
classes are required to be  changed. If a method signature is changed then we will 
be affected in both cases (inheritance & composition)

4. If a method is deleted in the "super class" or aggregate, then we will have to 
re-factor in case of using that  method. Here things can get a bit complicated in case of 
inheritance because our programs will still compile, but the  methods of the subclass will 
no longer be overriding superclass methods. These methods will become independent  methods 
in their own right.

Effective Java™, Second Edition By: Joshua Bloch

Chapter 4. Classes and Interfaces

Item 16: Favor composition over inheritance

Item 17: Design and document for inheritance or else prohibit it

Item 18: Prefer interfaces to abstract classes